Die?!
How come becoming one with nature means dying?
Gamakichi, what's with the dying?!
Don't make such weird analogies!
But...
Relax. You're not actually going to die, Naruto-boy.
Then what?
Just wait 'til I'm finished...
I'll explain it stepwise.
Absorbing Nature Energy...
It means the ability to sense it around you
and draw it into yourself.
In addition, by becoming one with nature,
you also gain full control over the Nature Energy
entering and leaving your body.
Practically speaking, in terms of your training...
Yeah, yeah?
Sit still.
Huh?
It means sit still!
When you cease your flow of animal instincts
and harmonize with the flow of nature,
you will be able to sense Nature Energy for the first time.
So I just stay still?
That seems easy enough.
Naruto, you really don't get it, do you?
For animals, not moving is the hardest thing to do.
Jumping, running, molding chakra with all my strength...
I've done those sorts of training.
But staying still? I don't quite get it.
But that's how you take in Nature Energy, right?
It's impossible to do it right away.
This training requires time,
since the degree of difficulty is very high.
It's gonna take that long?!
Don't take it so lightly, Naruto-boy!
Our enemy is Pain, who possesses the Rinnegan...
The power of the Sage of the Six Paths.
A powerful enemy who killed Jiraiya-boy.
With that kind of attitude, you can't possibly win!
I know all that!
Pain is the leader of the Akatsuki, who are after Tailed Beasts.
They could come for me at any moment.
I don't have much time to waste.
Well, it's not as though there isn't a better way...
There is?!
Then teach me that!
This waterfall behind me...
It's the secret toad oil of Mount Myoboku.
Toad oil?
Come over here and put out your hand.
Here.
This toad oil has the property of attracting Nature Energy.
It helps with the training.
Hey, that's useful!
Whenever you rub this oil on your body,
Nature Energy can enter through there.
And gradually, you'll gain the ability to sense Nature Energy.
You're right...
I think I feel something through my skin.
It is a tool to help grasp the concept.
In time, you won't even need to use the oil.
However, there is a risk.
When used by one who is inexperienced in controlling Nature Energy,
you start to turn into a frog.
Wh-Wh-What the hell is this?!
Help!
I don't wanna be a frog!
Oww!
What's the big idea?
I'm back to normal.
It's all about balance.
You're used to turning your Mental and Physical Energy
into ninjutsu chakra, so you've got a balance there.
But now, you must add Nature Energy into the mix.
Getting the perfect balance is extremely difficult.
Balance, huh?
PHYSICAL MENTAL NATURE Take in too little, and you won't get Sage Jutsu chakra.
And yet, if you take in too much,
Nature Energy will overwhelm you and turn you into a frog.
Of course, if you only take in a little too much, it's reversible.
But get beyond a certain amount, and you'll stay as a frog,
never reverting back to a human again.
What I meant about you having to die
is that you might stop being human.
Once you turn into a frog,
then you progress further toward permanently becoming one with nature.
And the past students who've failed in this training...
are those stone statues.
All of them?
Well, don't fret too much.
You have me.
And this baton beats Nature Energy out of one's body.
If you start transforming into a frog,
I'll beat you thoroughly to reverse it.
Speaking truthfully,
even Jiraiya-boy wasn't able to completely master this.
When molding Sage Jutsu chakra,
Jiraiya-boy always acquired some frog features.
But he was among the skilled ones.
I doubt that you'd hesitate after coming this far,
but let me ask you...
What will you do?
I'll do it!
My Ninja Way...
is the same as the Pervy Sage's!
What did I really lose that day?
ano hi honto ni ushinatta monotte nan dattakke
For the life of me, I can't remember.
tou ni wasureteshimatta yo
We slowly lost sight of each other in the twilight...
yuugure de futari sukoshizutsu mienakunatteitte
And yet we're stuck here - unable to go home.
sore nanoni bokura kaerezu ni ita
Weak, frail souls lost in the world...
dokoka ni kowaresou na moroi kokoro
We act strong to hide their fragility.
tsuyogaru kotoba de ootte kakushiteru
Hide their fragility... ootte kakushiteru
So farewell, but even forced apart...
sayonara aenakunattatte Our stories go on.
bokura wa tsuzuki ga aru kara
Even in a world without you, I run.
kimi no inai sekai datte hashiru yo
To someday get past the pain.
itsuka no itami mo koete
koete Someday...
The First Challenge
We finally got the Six-Tails.
Now we can go on the hunt for the Nine-Tails.
Good idea.
Because you killed Jiraiya, the Leaf will set their eyes on you.
The more time passes,
the more likely they'll set some plan in motion.
Take action before it becomes more difficult.
Pain is invincible...
No matter what happens, we will capture the Nine-Tails.
There's just one more Tailed Beast left.
Not two?
Sasuke has already captured the Eight-Tails.
I see.
Konan, make preparations immediately.
We're heading out to the Hidden Leaf.
Oww!
Tomorrow, I'm going to be bruised and bleeding on the inside.
What? Giving up already?
Hey, I know a much better training method.
What is it?
Use Shadow Clones for the training.
They exponentially increase my progress!
You have a point.
The experience of the Shadow Clones reverts back to the original.
But the reverse is also true...
If a Shadow Clone completely changes into a frog,
it's over for the original.
I know that already.
Very well. But four is the limit!
Any more and neither the baton or I can keep up!
All right!
We're not playing a game of whack-a-mole!
This is training!
I'm not gonna last doing this!
Damn!
Oww!
My face is like this from being hit!
I'm not turning into a frog!
What?! Sorry.
I never thought that training to feel Nature Energy
would be so hard.
Only through perseverance shall true strength be gained.
I know that!
If it'll make me strong like the Pervy Sage,
anyone would endure this.
No... That's impossible.
This training is not for everyone...
You could say it's only possible because it's you and Jiraiya-boy.
Or else I wouldn't have even brought you here.
What do you mean?
Unless you already possess enormous chakra inside you,
Nature Energy would just take over you right away.
That is how intense Nature Energy is.
Plus, they must have the guts to never give up.
That's the kind of person who can become a Sage.
All right! Let's do this then!
Fool! Do you want to kill yourself?!
I can see it!
- Yes! - It seems he's starting
- I can see it! I can see it! - to get the feel of Nature Energy.
- Lord Fukasaku, I'm getting a little hungry. - I saw it! I saw it!
- You're right. - I saw it!
- Naruto-boy, time for a break. - I'm awesome, yeah!
Let's eat.
Eat up now.
After the break,
I'll have you try to lift up the stone frogs using Sage Jutsu.
Y-Yes sir!
Good, huh? They're Ma's special dishes.
They're all favorites of mine.
That actually tasted quite good.
I'm becoming less human, after all.
Now then, I want you to raise the stone frog.
But first, try it using only your ninjutsu chakra.
O-Okay.
All right!
I can't lift it!
All right, stop!
Now, mold some Sage Jutsu chakra!
Right!
Good! Now try lifting the stone frog once more!
Okay!
Oh!
That's it! Naruto-boy!
Nice, Naruto!
This lad's quicker on the uptake than Jiraiya-boy.
I did it!
Fool! How dare you treat your predecessor with such disrespect!
Though he's a lot denser than Jiraiya-boy too...
All right, Naruto-boy!
Now put all the toppled stones back in place!
Are you serious?!
The Eight-Tails, huh?
It seems Sasuke was successful.
Pain will bring the Nine-Tails.
It appears you've mastered toad oil assisted control.
Now you need to master controlling Nature Energy
without using the oil.
I can feel the power flowing into me!
Ninjutsu chakra consumes your internal energy.
The more you use it, the more exhausted you will become.
In contrast, Sage Jutsu chakra draws in external energy,
so it will not tire you.
In fact, you will recover and heal quicker too.
I get it...
Well... With the Nine-Tails' chakra in the mix too,
he's showing a truly remarkable recovery rate.
Now maybe I can do that too...
Do what?
Huh?! Oh, nothing... Nothing at all!
Never mind then... But here.
I thought I'd give you this today, Naruto-boy.
What is it?
A book.
Book?
This is the first novel Jiraiya-boy wrote.
A lot of Jiraiya-boy's mind and heart are contained within it.
You should read it.
TALES OF A GUTSY NINJA Tales of...a Gutsy Ninja.
Why don't you give it up?
This game of tag is getting boring.
Give it up.
Can I say one thing?
I don't care to listen!
Die already!
Give up...
on me giving up!
Even if you bring me down,
another assassin will attack the village...
As long as we are cursed to live in this Ninja World,
there will be no peace.
Then...I'll break that curse!
If there is such a thing as peace, I'll seize it!
I'll never give up!
Wh-Who are you...?
My name is...
TALES OF A GUTSY NINJA
JIRAIYA
Sasuke said he was going to sever his bond with me
and become stronger.
He said I could never understand his feelings.
You were friends with Orochimaru long ago, right, Pervy Sage?
Why did Orochimaru desert the village
and decide to destroy the Hidden Leaf?
Orochimaru changed after his parents were killed.
He became obsessed with the Forbidden Jutsu.
Maybe he longed to see his parents...
Or he sought revenge on the Leaf Village,
who he held responsible for their deaths.
My parents weren't killed.
So like you,
I was accused of not being able to understand.
Perhaps he was right,
and I didn't understand a thing about him...
However...
Even I can see there's too much hate in our Ninja World.
Hate?
And I've wanted to do something about this hatred,
yet I'm not sure what must be done.
But I have faith... that there will come a time
when people can truly understand one another.
It all sounds kinda complicated.
And if I can't find the answer,
perhaps I will entrust you to find it.
Yes, sir! I can't turn you down, can I, Pervy Sage?
What? Why are you laughing?
Your smile is my salvation.
I'm glad I made you my student.
R-Really?
But I haven't given up yet.
PRODUCTION NOTEBOOK I plan to change this world with my books!
With those books that don't sell?
You fool!
They'll be bestsellers before you know it!
And when that day finally arrives,
I won't autograph your copies even if you beg me!
I don't need any of that!
I don't need any of that...
'Cuz Pervy Sage... You gave me something much more valuable.
With so few people, it sure is taking a while.
Shut up!
Be quiet and focus.
It appears... Sasuke has blundered.
An octopus leg!
Quit laughing!
What's this sensation?
I don't feel uncomfortable being still at all!
Is this what it feels like to become one with nature?
I'm not using the toad oil,
but I can tell power is being gathered from everywhere!
I can feel the power surging inside of me!
Is this Sage Mode?!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Surpassing the Master"
Tune in again!